# TG-Pre-Work

### While we do want our developers to work smarter, not harder, please refrain from plagiarizing.  It is completely fine to reword information you have gleaned from internet sources, however, please be prepared to redo the work should you submit a directly copied/pasted answer.  If you must copy/paste, cite your sources (this citation doesn't need to be fancy - just state directly where you found the information or provide a link).  Additionally, some of the questions below are tricky.  The answers were not necessarily covered in the reading we assigned.  They are not intended to be straightforward because we expect you to do some research to discover the answers to the best of your ability.  If you cannot find an answer, explain what you do know and what you are stuck on.  

## When we hit https://www.techtonic.com/ what happens? Don’t focus too much on architecture (Monolithic, SOA, Microservices, etc.). Try to focus more on how the web functions in general terms/steps.

## When we hit https://www.techtonic.com/ what happens? Don’t focus too much on architecture (Monolithic, SOA, Microservices, etc.). Try to focus more on how the web functions in general terms/steps.
When the link ”https://www.techtonic.com/  ” is clicked, the mouse action is programmed in JavaScript or other programming language to locate (1). The operating system and the browser work together to interpret information associated with the link that is not visible to the user (6).  This starts the process of sending a request for the next page to be viewed (6).  The information associated with the link has the identification of the next page to be viewed, the address of the computer that stores the page or other resource and how the document should be delivered (3).  The first page to be returned is usually an HTTM page, but may also be text documents, graphics, programs, videos or other digital content (3).  The request will go onto a network to locate that computer, which then searches for the requested page using the page (identification), information sent to it in the request (6).  If the page cannot be found, the server will return an error message “404 page not found,”  which means the page cannot be found (2).  The server returns the page that was found (6).  The browser that made the request closes the connection (2).  The page is returned to the device that sent the request and the browser interprets, or renders the page so that it can be viewed by the user (6).  The browser will search the page for additional elements required to complete rendering the page (6).  If additional resources are needed, new connections will be made until all elements are retrieved (6).  When the browser finishes locating all of the additional page elements, the connection is closed (6).  The browser translates HTML and other code into forms that can be viewed by the user.
Whether browsing, clicking on a link, downloading files such as pdf files from a website, or other exchanges between computers, it is the internet that connects computers together (10). The internet is not a single physical network, it is a set of rules that allow different networks to communicate (10).  The protocols are the rules and conventions used for communicating between devices on the network (10).  The browser is necessary to connect to the network (10).  When you connect to the world wide web using the browser, it joins the network, you can send or receive information from any other computer or server online (10).  
The World-Wide-Web (WWW) is not the same as the internet (10).  The WWW was developed in the 1990s by Tim Berners-lee to make it easier to find and link documents together (10, 3).  The WWW is one of many services on the internet such as email, internet telephone and peer-to-peer file transfers (10).  In order to facilitate the exchange of files and resources between the diverse systems and multiple programming languages on varied platforms, it was necessary to establish protocols for naming objects to be used and exchanged on the World Wide Web (5, 9).  Early on, it was recognized that there were protocols existing, and more to be invented for the web, yet there needed to be a concept of a universal set of objects and the universal set of names or addresses of objects (5, 9).  The idea of a generic object was proposed and there needed to be a universal set of names or addresses of objects (5, 9).  The name of the Universal identifier is a Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) (5, 9).  A Uniform Resource Locator (URL) is defined as a form of URI which expresses an address which maps onto an access algorithm using network protocols (5, 9).   
The information that is connected to the link that is clicked that starts the exchange to return the next page is the URL of the requested page. A URL is a formatted text string that indicates the location of a resource on a computer network (3). The URL may be typed into the browser, but clicking on a link connected to the URL will start the sequence of searching and returning the next page.  The URL consists of several parts, some are mandatory, while others are optional and can be included when something other than the default is needed (3).  The URL contains the protocol necessary to retireve a file (3).  A basic URL will include the protocol necessary to retrieve the file, the host name or address, and the resource location (3).  A full URL will define the protocol necessary to retrieve a file or document, the server, the location of the content on the server, the gateway used to access that server, server-related information about the content, and client-related information about the content’s display (3).  
The browser uses the URL to create a request by working with the operating system of the computer where the link was clicked (6). The browser opens a connection to a server(6).  The connection uses internet protocols (IP) to connect to the server (6).  The request goes through several layers of a protocol stack where it is assigned an IP number and a port number, along with identifying information about the requested page (2).  A protocol stack is required for every computer connected to the internet to transform information into electronic signals (2).  The request will go through a hierarchy of routers to find the address of the computer storing the requested page (2).  If the computer cannot be located, the browser will access a Domain Name Server (DNS), which is structured in a hierarchy similar to the hierarchy that routers are arranged in in order to locate the destination computer (2).  The request will reach the server and the Protocol stack will examine the port number in order to determine the program that will receive the request (2).  The server will locate the resource and send it back to the client (6).  The first resource returned will most likely be an HTML page (6).  The page is rendered by the browser, which then scans the page for additional identifiers and resources (6).  The additional resources are usually images applets or other page elements (2).  The browser will make additional HTTP requests to the server for each additional element (2).  When the browser has finished loading all the additional elements, the connection will be closed and the browser will load all of the elements in the browser window (2).


1.	https://javascript.info/mouse-events-basics
2.	Rus shuler, “How does the internet work?”  https://web.stanford.edu/class/msande91si/www-spr04/readings/week1/InternetWhitepaper.htm  
3.	WhoisHostingThis Team, “What is a URL?” Learn the basics and beyond. https://www.whoishostingthis.com/resources/url/
4.	The many ways Websites Track You Online Chris Hoffman How-To Geek  https://www.howtogeek.com/115483/htg-explains-learn-how-websites-are-tracking-you-online/
5.	Naming and addressing: URI’s URLs … W3c Architecture domain.  https://www.w3.org/Addressing/
6.	Toni Li, “What happens when you click on a link, from a technical perspective? ”, Quroa https://www.quora.com/What-happens-when-you-click-on-a-link-from-a-technical-perspective
7.	Beal, Vangie, “IP Address – Internet Protocol (IP) address.” https://www.webopedia.com/TERM/I/IP_address.html
8.	Mitchell, Bradley,”What are Network Protocols?”,Lifewire. https://www.lifewire.com/definition-of-protocol-network-817949
9.	Berners-Lee T. Universal Resource Identifiers in WWW. https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc1630
10.	“The web and the internet are not the same thing.” Infogineering. http://www.infogineering.net/web-internet.htm


## From start to finish, how does data reach you to be rendered in the browser?

The process starts by a click on a link, or entering an identifying text string called a Uniform Resource Locator into the URL window of the browser.  This starts the series of events to open a link to another computer on a network to make a request for the next page.  The browser works together with the operating system to identify the link (3).  A link is connected to information that identifies the page, the address of the computer that stores the page and the protocol for displaying the page (5).  The formatted string that makes the request is a member of the set of universal identifiers of objects on the web called Uniform Resource locators (URL). If a link is being displayed on a page in a web browser, it is likely that a browser is open and has a connection to a computer network. The URL may be typed into the URL window of the browser to start the request for the next page.  If the link is a resource available on the World Wide Web(WWW) there will be a WWW identifier for the protocol as part of the URL.
The computer formats the message and sends it as a request for a page or other document from a computer on the network.   The network may be a local network or a large network of computers around the globe.  The internet is a large network of computers networked around the world and has been in development  since the 1960s as a way to exchange documents between computers (6).  
The internet is not a physical network, it is the set of rules that allow different networks to communicate (6).  Internet protocols are the rules established for exchanging files on the internet (6).  The set of pages and sites that use the internet to pass files is the World Wide Web (WWW) (6). The WWW operates on a client/server model (2).  Servers store content and reply to requests for web pages or other digital content from clients on networks.  A web browser is a web client that runs on a computer on a network whose main function is to connect to the network and locate files or other content from a disk or remote server and display the results in a browser window (10, 11).  The resources that are returned are typically web pages, but can also be documents, graphics, programs (8), images, PDFs or almost any other kind of information that can be stored digitally (11).  The web browser opens a connection to another computer using the information in the URL (7).  The URL is a formatted text string that defines the protocol necessary to retrieve a file or document (8).  A URL has many components, some mandatory and others optional that can be included to include more than what is determined by the default options (6).  A basic URL will consist of three parts, the protocol, the host name or address and the resource location (8).  The components of a more extended URL are the scheme, the section defining the content, the domain name, the port, a section that includes the path to the resource on the server, a query string and an optional anchor section (6).  Together these components contain the information required to locate the server, the identification of the requested file and the client – related information needed to display the content (6).  
The message must be translated from alphabetic text into electronic signals transmitted over the network, then  translated back into alphabetic text (9). This is accomplished by the protocol stack, a stack of different layers of processing that usually built into the operating system and is required for every computer to communicate on the internet (9).  The protocol stack that is used on the internet is referred to as the TCP/IP protocol stack (9).  The different layers of the protocol stack are the application, TCP, IP and hardware layers (9).  As the message is passed through the stack, each layer may break the message into smaller, more manageable parts (9). These are known as packets on the internet (9).  The packet is assigned a destination address in the IP layer (9).  The browser checks its cache to see if the site has been visited recently and if the IP is still in memory in the cache (3). After going through the protocol stack, the packets have port numbers and IP addresses assigned to them (9).  The port numbers identify which programs on the destination computer will receive the message since each program listens on a specific port (9).  Since the packet has a port number and IP address assigned to it, the packet is ready to be sent over the network to the destination computer (9).
ISP Routers
Computers have a direct connection to the internet through Internet Service Providers (ISP) (9).  The message is sent to a router on the network, which is a router switch (9).  The ISPs router examines the destination address in each packet and determines the destination, which is often another router (9).  After the packets go through the ISPs local equipment, they are routed onto the ISPs backbone or backbone that an ISP buys bandwidth from (9).  The packets are routed through other backbones, other routers dedicated lines and through the network of the destination until they reach the address of the server (9).  The routers are arranged in hierarchies (9).  The backbones are at the top of the hierarchy and there are several layers of routers under the backbones (9).   Each router connected to the internet keeps routing tables that use information to get packets to their destination (9).  When a packet arrives at a router, the router examines the IP address put there by the IP protocol layer of the Protocol Stack of the computer where the request originated (9).  Routers consult tables of IP addresses to determine if they can route the packet (9).  If the router cannot locate the IP address, it will be sent back through the hierarchy to another router (9).
Domain Name service (DNS)
The Domain Name Service (DNS) is a distributed database that keeps track of computers’ names and their corresponding addresses (9).  If an IP is not present, the browser will check the default DNS Server (3).  A default server is specified by the network of the computer running the browser (3).  The default server may be the ISP’s default server or the default server of the network that the computer is connected to (3).  If the IP address is not known, a DNS query may be run against the DNS service to return the IP address (9).  If the DNS server doesn’t have an entry, the root nameservers will look at the request and direct a query to the top level domain (TLD) nameserver (3).  These servers don’t have the addresses, but they can route the message to the servers that do have the information needed (3). A DNS hierarchy is structured similar to the IP routing hierarchy (9).  A request for a name will be directed through the hierarchy until a DNS server can find the name (9).  
Eventually, the packets reach the destination computer (9).  The packets go through the TCP/IP stack and go through each layer in the reverse order they went through when being sent (9).  When a packet makes its way through the protocol stack, the TPC layer uses the port number to determine which application receives the packet (9).  The recursive server returns a record to the computer that requested the file (3).  The computer that made the request made a TCP connection to the server.  Router forwards the packet to the ISP and adds the IP to the router table (12).  The connection is used to return the requested resource from the server (12).
When the resource is returned, the browser renders the page so that it can be read by the user (4).  The browser consists of many components that are used for rendering the resources returned (11).  Although there are many browsers, there are common features of different browsers (11).  Browsers contain user interfaces, browser engines, rendering engines, javaScript interpreters and other features (11).  The rendering engine of a browser can display HTML and XML documents and images (11).  It can also display other types of data using plug-ins or extensions (11).


1.	https://javascript.info/mouse-events-basics
2.	How Web Browsers Work InformIT. http://www.informit.com/articles/article.aspx?p=680307
3.	Aravind, G. V., “How does my browser find the right website?” https://myopswork.com/how-does-my-browser-find-the-right-website-8b156037c3eb
4.	Li, Toni, “What happens when you click on a link, from a technical perspective?” Quroa https://www.quora.com/What-happens-when-you-click-on-a-link-from-a-technical-perspective
5.	World Wide Web Consortium, W3.org https://www.w3.org/Addressing/URL/URI_About.html
6.	“The web and the internet are not the same thing” Infogeneering http://www.infogineering.net/web-internet.htm
7.	Berners-Lee T. Universal Resource Identifiers in WWW. https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc1630
8.	WhoIsHostingThis Team, “What is a URL? Learn the basics and beyond. https://www.whoishostingthis.com/resources/url/
9.	Shuler, Rus. “How does the Internet work?” https://web.stanford.edu/class/msande91si/www-spr04/readings/week1/InternetWhitepaper.htm
10.	Emmanuel Ohans, “How Browser rendering works – behind the scenes https://blog.logrocket.com/how-browser-rendering-works-behind-the-scenes-6782b0e8fb10/
11.	Garsiel, Tali and Irish, Paul, “How browsers work: behind the scenes of modern web browsers”. https://www.html5rocks.com/en/tutorials/internals/howbrowserswork/
12.	 “How does a router know where to forward a packet? https://superuser.com/questions/105838/how-does-router-know-where-to-forward-packet


## What code is rendered in the browser?

The code that is rendered in the browser is the HTML, the CSS Style, the effects of the JavaScript code on the text and additional resources such as applets or page elements.
Most browsers have similar architectures for rendering content (1). Browsers have similar components for rendering websites (1).  The browser interprets and displays HTML files according to HTML and CSS specifications (1).   Many browsers include common components for browsing and returning content, for rendering content, for networking and for doing things such as drawing widgets like combo boxes and windows (1).  
The rendering engine displays the content.  If the content is HTML and CSS, the rendering engine parses the HTML and displays the parsed content in the browser (1).  The Java Script interpreter will parse and execute JavaScript code (1).  The browser may need to store data locally, such as cookies (1).  Browsers may support other data storage mechanisms (1) This information will not necessarily be visible in the browser.  
The rendering engine transforms page elements into tokens in the tokenizer.   The tokenizer parses input into tokens (1).   The tokens are converted into nodes (2).  The nodes are linked into a structure that becomes the Document Object Model (2). Once the DOM is established, then the cascading style sheet (CSS) will be linked.  The parse tree is an output tree consisting of DOM elements and attribute nodes. It is an object presentation of the HTML document and of the interface of HTML elements like JavaScript elements (1).  
If an element has been hidden by CSS, the hidden element will be present in the DOM but not the render tree.  The hidden element is not displayed (2).
The browser will display additional resources such as applets or other page elements (2).
1.	https://www.html5rocks.com/en/tutorials/internals/howbrowserswork/
2.	Rus shuler, “How does the internet work?”  https://web.stanford.edu/class/msande91si/www-spr04/readings/week1/InternetWhitepaper.htm  
## What is the server-side code’s main function?
Server – side scripting is creating scripts so that a process or user request is run on the originating server (1).  When a client makes a request for a web page, the request is processed by the web server (1). In a server side script scenario, the script is executed on the server and the result is returned to the client (1).  If the page that is returned to the client contains a client side script, the browser executes that script before displaying the web page (1). Most large – scale dynamic websites use server – side code to respond to user actions on a web page (1).  
1.	Client-Side vs. Server-Side Code What’s the Differenct? Segue Technologies https://www.seguetech.com/client-server-side-code/

## What is the client-side code’s main function?
Client-side scripts are embedded on the client’s web page and processed on the client’s internet browser.  Client-side scripts are written in some types of scripting language like JavaScript and interact directly with the page’s HTML elements like text boxes, buttons, list-boxes and tables.  HTML and CSS (cascading Style Sheets) are also used in the client. The client’s internet browser must support these languages in order for client-slide code to work.
1.	Client-Side vs. Server-Side Code What’s the Differenct? Segue Technologies https://www.seguetech.com/client-server-side-code/

## How many instances of the client-side assets (HTML, CSS, JS, Images, etc.) are created?
The instances of the client – side assets are in the page that is returned.  If a single page is returned one time, there is one instance of the page that contains the client – side assets in the page that is returned.  The browser will parse the HTML and tokenize the elements (3) The rendering engine will parse the HTML and tokenize the elements, the tokens are converted into nodes that are linked to a structure called a Document Object Model (3).  The engine will parse style data, both in external css files and style elements (3).  Styling information together with instructions in HTML will be used to create a render tree (3).  Only one instance of the client-side asset will be created.  If additional resources such as applets or other page elements are needed to load the page, additional connections will be opened to the server or to other sources to make additional requests (4).  When all elements that are needed to load the page are returned the connections are closed and the browser renders the page (4).
Additional elements may be included when the page is returned (1).  Client – side storage may work together with server side storage.  An example is music or images that may be opened and stored on a client – side database (1). The user would download them once, when the user returns to the game or app, they would be retrieved from the client side instead of the server side (1).   
“Often client-side and server-side storage are used together.  For example, you could download from a database a batch of music files used by a web game or music player app store them inside a client-side database, and play them as needed.  The user would only have to download the music files once – on subsequent visits they would be retrieved from the database instead (1). There are limits to the amount of data that can be stored on the client side using Client – side storage (1).  The limit depends on the browser and may be affected by user limits.

1.	Client – side storage? MDN Web docs https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/Client-side_web_APIs/Client-side_storage
2.	Working with IndexedDB https://developers.google.com/web/ilt/pwa/working-with-indexeddb
3.	Garisel, Tali and Irish, Paul. “How Browsers Work: Behind the scenes of modern web browsers.  HTML5Rocks https://www.html5rocks.com/en/tutorials/internals/howbrowserswork/
4.	Rus shuler, “How does the internet work?”  https://web.stanford.edu/class/msande91si/www-spr04/readings/week1/InternetWhitepaper.htm  


## What is the server-side code’s main function?

Server – side scripting is creating scripts so that a process or user request is run on the originating server (1).  When a client makes a request for a web page, the request is processed by the web server (1). In a server side script scenario, the script is executed on the server and the result is returned to the client (1).  If the page that is returned to the client contains a client side script, the browser executes that script before displaying the web page (1). Most large – scale dynamic websites use server – side code to respond to user actions on a web page (1).  
1.	Client-Side vs. Server-Side Code What’s the Differenct? Segue Technologies https://www.seguetech.com/client-server-side-code/


## What is the client-side code’s main function?

Client-side scripts are embedded on the client’s web page and processed on the client’s internet browser.  Client-side scripts are written in some types of scripting language like JavaScript and interact directly with the page’s HTML elements like text boxes, buttons, list-boxes and tables.  HTML and CSS (cascading Style Sheets) are also used in the client. The client’s internet browser must support these languages in order for client-slide code to work.
1.	Client-Side vs. Server-Side Code What’s the Differenct? Segue Technologies https://www.seguetech.com/client-server-side-code/


## What is runtime?

There are different explanations for run time on different resources on the web.
Several sources define runtime as the period that begins when a program starts running and ends when a program is terminated or quits (1, 2, 4).  Other explanations describe runtime as being measured when the application is loaded into random access memory (RAM).  This includes the executable file and any libraries frameworks or other files referenced by the program (1).  Other explanations include the software and instructions that are executed in the time that a program is running (3).  Runtime is often associated with a “runtime error” Which stops a program (1).

1.	TechTerms https://techterms.com/definition/runtime
2.	Rouse, Margaret “Runtime”.  https://searchsoftwarequality.techtarget.com/definition/runtime
3.	James e. What is “runtime” StackOverflow https://stackoverflow.com/questions/3900549/what-is-runtime
4.	Techopedia, “Definition – What does Run time mean?” https://www.techopedia.com/definition/3869/run-time


## How many instances of the client-side assets (HTML, CSS, JS, Images, etc.) are created?
The instances of the client – side assets are in the page that is returned.  If a single page is returned one time, there is one instance of the page that contains the client – side assets in the page that is returned.  The browser will parse the HTML and tokenize the elements (3) The rendering engine will parse the HTML and tokenize the elements, the tokens are converted into nodes that are linked to a structure called a Document Object Model (3).  The engine will parse style data, both in external css files and style elements (3).  Styling information together with instructions in HTML will be used to create a render tree (3).  Only one instance of the client-side asset will be created.  If additional resources such as applets or other page elements are needed to load the page, additional connections will be opened to the server or to other sources to make additional requests (4).  When all elements that are needed to load the page are returned the connections are closed and the browser renders the page (4).
Additional elements may be included when the page is returned (1).  Client – side storage may work together with server side storage.  An example is music or images that may be opened and stored on a client – side database (1). The user would download them once, when the user returns to the game or app, they would be retrieved from the client side instead of the server side (1).   
“Often client-side and server-side storage are used together.  For example, you could download from a database a batch of music files used by a web game or music player app store them inside a client-side database, and play them as needed.  The user would only have to download the music files once – on subsequent visits they would be retrieved from the database instead (1). There are limits to the amount of data that can be stored on the client side using Client – side storage (1).  The limit depends on the browser and may be affected by user limits.

1.	Client – side storage? MDN Web docs https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/Client-side_web_APIs/Client-side_storage
2.	Working with IndexedDB https://developers.google.com/web/ilt/pwa/working-with-indexeddb
3.	Garisel, Tali and Irish, Paul. “How Browsers Work: Behind the scenes of modern web browsers.  HTML5Rocks https://www.html5rocks.com/en/tutorials/internals/howbrowserswork/
4.	Rus shuler, “How does the internet work?”  https://web.stanford.edu/class/msande91si/www-spr04/readings/week1/InternetWhitepaper.htm  


## How many instances of the server-side code are available at any given time?

I got stuck on this because searches for server - side code return explanations for APIs for JavaScript and other routines that focus on server - side code, but I could not find resources that described how many instances of the server side code are available at any give time other than by the numbers of browsers that are running on a computer at the same time.

## How many instances of the databases connected to the server application are created?

I got stuck on this one as well.  I searched for authentication, which returned descriptions of authentication to an account through a website.  I did not find anything that having access to database information through a website allows access to any more than one instance at a time.  From what I know about database administration, access to more than one instance of a database is done by somenone with administrator privileges at the server that is hosting the instances of the database. 
